and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't yet
check out our weekly email where we
share actual marketing tips useful
podcasts free guides resources and much
more each and every monday to start your
week off with a bang check it out over
at businessgrowth.email
and with that my guest today is fred
copesteak fred's the founder over at
brindus a sales training consultancy
he's host of the podcast
sells today and most importantly
just literally just launched his brand
new second book hybrid selling which is
on sale right now and he's got some
fresh news for us he's gonna
gonna give us a little surprise as well
fred i think you've got some great news
on the book side of things
absolutely yeah we've been promoting it
quite hard the last couple of days and
it has just gone to number one in amazon
so i am really really chuffed with that
awesome
from an ego point of view it's great but
it also means it's getting the hands on
salespeople so that is even better for
me fantastic news congrats again dude
that's that's really really good news
and welcome back for the second time to
the show so we we the audience kind of
uh disliked you too much you've been
invited back on for round two so good
idea still writing another book sub
for the effort i'll go through because
it's worth it
yeah congrats again so make sure you
check that out hybrid selling on sale on
amazon right now so all today fred we're
gonna be talking all about hybrid
selling we're gonna be sharing what it
is some of the frameworks around it and
how it's gonna help everyone tuning in
sell more this year in 2022
so first of all
what the heck is it what does hybrid
selling really mean
yeah well it's it's an interesting one
um and a lot of people have got lots of
different kind of um different
definitions and what a lot of people
gravitate towards is that kind of oh
well well that's kind of like virtual
selling isn't it wait where are you
doing stuff online
and the obvious answer to that is well
no that's virtual selling it's kind of
already got a name
it's already a thing um
that said that is a really important
part of it but when we think about what
hybrid is hybrids are mixed isn't it and
so for me hybrid selling is mixing up a
whole bunch of sales approaches ways of
working things which are really
important today for sales people to stay
relevant
now and more so in the future
um
so that's how i define it you know it's
kind of a mix up of stuff that sales
people have got to get their heads
around we've got to be doing otherwise
we might not be in a position to future
proof ourselves
got it so it sounds to me like it's
leveraging a bunch of tools
to make sure we sell more effectively is
that right or
yeah they're right you know so tools
techniques methodologies thinking
mindset it pulls in from lots and lots
of stuff um yeah you know when we chat
last time i talked about
there's lots of things that have gone on
in sales before which are really good
still work
lots of stuff people are doing that
don't work and god knows why they're
doing it um so it's just it's getting
those it's just putting them into a
little bit more of a deliberate and
conscious way of working to make sure
you are being of use and interesting to
customers end of the day
got it and that makes sense so how does
hybrid selling stack up to perhaps more
traditional sales strategies or sales
methods like some people might be
familiar with let's say sandler selling
or spin the selling or the challenger
sale there's so many sales frameworks
that have been around for years and
years how does it compare to some of the
kind of more older school things that
have been around for a long time
they're part of it
basically they would pull on it so if
you've been sander trained if you're
spin trained
challenger
you will see where
they're really solid ways of working you
know still are been around a bit so
whether that's solid you'll see where
they fit in and it might be go i'm
excellent to that base but actually now
i'm looking at the broader framework of
what i need to mix in with it i might be
a bit lucky in some of the other areas
so i can go and i can tap in and maybe
pull from another area that is existing
i've not actually really invented
anything i've just kind of tried to
codify and put it in a way that makes
sense so we can think about okay this is
the stuff that i need to be i need to be
doing
yeah
and
is this framework before we get stuck
into the nuts and bolts and how everyone
can put it into play is it geared
towards anyone at a certain stage in in
sales i.e is it geared more towards
people that are new to selling that more
experience more senior or
again it is taking the bits which work
for you it's b2b yeah that's for sure
and it is it's less oriented towards sas
they do have a way of working that i
don't always really kind of agree with
it it doesn't always make sense to me
but if somebody's involved in full cycle
maybe from a kind of a more you know
traditional more solid i mean even you
know i t i t sellers i t resellers
something that they would they would
benefit from it that's that's who it's
aimed at
got it but what i want to think about it
is the rgi i sometimes use is if you
imagine imagine you're playing a drum
you've got a little drum and you're
there tapping it away yeah with one
drumstick yeah i mean you know it's okay
but it's not going to be the best
performance
you might if we compare that analogy to
selling you might have just got away
with doing that until now
it isn't going to see you through
for much longer and certainly into the
future we need to set up a big old drum
kit with lots and lots of different
pieces so you know different symbols
different types of drum different things
that you'll play as and when it's right
to put on a bigger better performance
and that's what the trademark will do it
help you make sure you've got your drum
kit sorted and so you've got your
favorite job and the one you've been
doing and then we need to add some other
bits in usually
like it like it's we're talking about
helping a full cycle selling
so right from
is that right from prospecting to
booking meetings to running the meetings
to generating the cell and getting it
over the line is that what we're talking
about yeah sure and and even if you
think a lot of the people i've tended to
be involved with they will also be
running the account as well you know
yeah there was only a manager and it is
you know soup to nuts if you like to
throw in a another different analogy
it's people are looking after the whole
lot rather than just an appointment
unless you see the customer yeah just a
demo last year the customer which uh i
think i don't always
i don't always make sense to me that one
but uh if you
if if customers of the heart of your um
of your attention you're doing all the
bits with them well let's make sure
we're doing all the bits right with them
yeah exactly i mean it makes sense
ultimately if we're managing the account
we're going to want to be providing good
customer success growing the account
giving a great service to the customer
and leveraging growing revenue over time
so with that said let's stop being about
around the bush and let's talk about how
we can put hybrid selling into play and
i think you've got a framework for us as
well fred
sure yeah so to to i like to hang things
around frameworks i think it just makes
it easier for people to understand
and so the framework we work around is
the evolve framework
yeah e v o l v e so each of those just
acts as a reminder of what the things
are we need to consider
so
high level overview
firstly is the essentials
you've got to build on solid foundations
yeah you've got to have a solid approach
to winning business you've got to know
the basics of sales
um so again that could be the stuff that
you've learned before with whoever
you've been training with it's what's
going to keep you going now
me personally i would base it around the
stuff i wrote the first book
obviously but yeah that's your basis if
we haven't got that you can always
forget about adding in all the rest of
the stuff
we move into v v virtual yeah so the
virtual selling so using video is
important we know that now um
synchronous asynchronous sending it
doing it live
plus some of the other the other
elements we can chat about in a sec
we then got to manage opportunities yeah
so opportunity management is an
important part this is about getting
more information
information usually about people about
decision making units and really working
out what we know what we don't know what
we're going to do about the stuff we
don't know and how that's going to
generate actions which can be moved into
mutual action plans and kind of moving
the whole thing forward
all right we've got to lead people as
sales so we're on to the l of evolve so
else we've got a lead
not in an 80s styley lead them up the
garden path and manipulating trying to
wrap many fingers no no no this guide
guide would probably be another word for
that certainly the approach helping
people make sense of their buying
process what they're trying to do and
assisting them
customers are confused quite often
they're confused we think they're in
this really strong position where
they've got all the information they're
further down the buying cycle they can
self-diagnose and information everywhere
but it's a it's a complicated world out
there
value selling is the next v
so again people talk about selling value
a hell of a lot i sometimes wonder
whether you really understand what that
means and how do we do that effectively
and then the bit that you started on
actually at the end is the expand piece
which is like growing customers and
working with them and making sure they
get their outcomes that we promised so
customer success and the rest of it
nice it's a big website big old drum set
yeah there's quite a bit to it hopefully
we've got enough time to dive deep into
each point so let's start from the top
sir and let's talk about the essentials
of cells sounds like quite a broad term
to me what does that mean and what can
people take away
or what should we take away when it
comes to the essentials
uh so
again for me the way i would break that
one down would be that we need to
validate accounts we've got to find out
the best kind of account we want to work
with qualify them qualify and qualify
out we can make an approach and then we
can do proper prep to align and to
understand where do we think we can add
value to them where can we do some good
stuff
yeah we then leverage that information
we have good conversations with
discovery we talked about last time we
spoke understanding that to them put
together tailor an approach for them
that is
going to help them get the results that
we've understood they need
back that up present it prove it
they agree you might have to negotiate
it a little bit
and then we make sure we deliver on that
that that is solid selling and again
that in itself involves a hell of a lot
of stuff
it's a long shot any single one well we
spoke on the whole show pretty much
around discovery didn't we so oh yeah
yeah like you say identifying accounts
depending on the size of the deals that
you're working the type of companies
that you're targeting and the
prospecting part alone could be a long
long piece of it and then the discovery
and then working them through
and the sales funnel is sales processes
depending on like i say the size of your
deals and
how many people involved in the decision
making process can be a long and long
old piece of the puzzle
fred put you on the spot what what are
some of the top ways to prospect that
you're seeing working now in 2022 um
every day i log on to linkedin people
are saying cold calling is dead called
calling to live videos are live linkedin
messaging's live what do you think's
really working with the people that
you're training
everything's a live mate everything's
alive and actually again because someone
who's just written a book called hybrid
i'll say mix it all in and make it work
for you you know okay easy as a point of
hybrid but uh let let us neatly segue
our way into v which is the the video
for virtual selling video i i think
video's hot um
i probably would so i spoke to tyler
leslie yesterday
i could hear him in my ears no no but
joking apart i think yes there's lots of
stuff which isn't dead you can still use
it
but if we're talking about trying to
humanize selling we want to build
relationships we want people to sort of
understand us and to build that
connection with us yeah get yourself in
front of them then
you can get yourself in front of them
by using video and it can show that
you're taking the effort to personalize
to understand them to put something
together for them
yeah um people make lots of excuses not
to use it
um
but for me that would be the one i think
certainly here in uk you're still
getting a bit of a first move advantage
it's still different enough and
interesting enough for somebody oh that
was cool that's pretty clever how'd you
do that then and you have to lose half
the meeting explaining how you did it
and then you can get onto the stuff that
you set the meeting up to do but it's
worked eh
yeah i mean i've said it on the show so
many times like the i think right now
the only outreach i really get is email
or linkedin dms but i almost never get
videos if i do very rarely maybe one a
month they're not personalized they're
literally like a batch video where it
just says hi my company does x and would
you like to book a demo that kind of
thing um
so if you if you want to prospect me
send me a personalized video
but you can't still batch them you know
again when we say batch them you're not
gonna be able to do one they're gonna
send to five six hundred people at once
but why would you wanna do that anyway
they'll be difficult to follow up sure
you identify ten accounts with a similar
kind of challenge that you think okay i
know what your challenge is and guess
what the first part of the video is i
want to send you this video because i
know you've got this this and this
challenge that's what we concentrate on
and that's why i wanted to reach out
just to have a bit of a broader
conversation with you around it yeah oh
that person's speaking to me because
they've understood my challenge it's
some ways
we can i think in sales over complicated
stuff
we definitely do
as as as a marketer that does sell
i love making excuses as well like ah
call that person tomorrow i'm gonna do
something on linkedin now i'm gonna make
this podcast or i'm gonna do this video
um yeah i'll sort that follow up in a
bit just love pushing stuff to the back
of the day
yeah
yeah but but but the video piece
if you are going to do that then you're
in a massive catch up it helps you by i
think moving you forward faster and of
course then you get more comfortable
with it they get used to getting stuff
from you using different parts of sales
process so you're sending it with a
proposal following up the meeting
i think you're almost like racking up
face time and then the brain works that
it'll feel more you'll feel more
familiar people get closer to you faster
yeah i mean no brainer
no i agree i agree it's not used enough
um i mean some of the ways i've seen
success with videos like you mentioned
just then sending it with a proposal
with a plan where i just basically
encapsulate the key points like the
prospect problems that we've discussed
on the discovery call um how we're going
to bring bring about the solution and
how we're going to kind of bring it to a
friction just like a quick one or two
minute summary and maybe i'll do it with
vidyard or loom and my my screen share
will be with their website on the
background just so it kind of resonates
with them um which i know tyler at
vidyard talks about a bit um see that's
some of the ways i've had success with
it just because you stand out from the
crowd because most sales rep just can't
be asked to do that any other areas of
the process that you've found successful
video on
prospecting prospecting follow the
meeting yeah oh it was great to have
time to actually talk to you so i just
thought i'd summarize what it is that
you said i mean like you've done the
proposal again like i want to put my
face and my voice back in front of you
yeah then
the action plan we've got so i've sent
you this proposal this is what we need
to do yep
we've mentioned it already and we'll
talk about an opportunity management but
there's more and more people involved in
the dmu in the decision making unit so
if you're recording it in mind that
actually this stuff isn't for sam this
is for sam to send to his people
his boss his support whoever it is yeah
so i'm thinking this is great freddy's
done off my job that's not gonna work
with you
yeah think of it like that it's a way of
getting your message across in the way
that you need it understood way more
effectively making someone else's life
easier
that's a great point and i guess you can
literally say when you share the video
at the start like
hey steve hey janet whoever is like
great to chat earlier here's some of the
key points i understood from your
objectives your problems where you want
to get to and this is what we propose
also if you want to share this like with
the rest of the marketing team or the
cfo or the cmo um that would be great
and then we can catch up kind of next
monday when we've booked in yeah well
you might yeah i actually said one like
this where i said
hi
i can't use his name hi sam um i've got
this a bit of a summary now i expect
you're going to be sending it on to john
hey john hi mate
so reason i put it together for you guys
is
now i've kind of made it so it's
deliberately like that and you get why
i've done it like that john receives it
i think that's pretty cool fred has
thought about me
yeah yeah yeah
i get why some people can be reticent
around sort of putting themselves in
front of a camera and talking i mean
we're pretty used to it
um but again i'll chat to mario martinez
jr about this again he's expert in this
and he said to me like what person he
said thing is if you're fat bored and
ugly um in real life you will be on
camera as well
mario that's a bit he went oh no sorry
fred i know i didn't beat you that's
just the exact thing i used so yeah well
you know freudian and all that um but no
that's what you're saying and then
but also people try to make it so
perfect
well
if you're face-to-face you probably
wouldn't say it perfectly a little bit
of a slip
no drama in it just say okay
stumble over that carry on rather than
just re-recording re-recording
re-recording
no that's it i think i completely agree
i mean like like i said not very few
people in sales even make the effort to
do a video so just by doing the video
you're putting yourself pretty much at
the front of the queue and then if you
make it relevant to the prospect of the
buyer that you're in conversation with
then
they don't mind if you make it we make a
mistake we all mess up it's it's part of
it isn't it it shows you're not a robot
i think
yeah and you sent me an email telling me
how innovative and cutting-edge and
modern you are okay
you used some innovative cutting-edge
modern stuff then
let's let's not go down that road
we proceed to to the oh of opportunities
again yeah so we've touched on that um
so opportunity management i mean is it
discipline in itself if you think about
it um yeah i mean the hymen a lot of
their stuff was built around that you
know the blue sheets and in the good old
days when i were a lad
start filling these things in but it's a
great way of thinking about the
information you need to be useful
for the customer and also for yourself
and your own company
and a lot of that is the who's who it's
that decision making unit we know
they're getting bigger
let's work out who they are let's map
them let's think about the individuals
what are they trying to achieve
right think about it from the point of
view they're kpis so from a business
point of view what are they there to
deliver for the business
they will more than likely have
different things
okay but we're talking about people they
will also have personal ambitions
personal goals personal dreams
and that whole kind of emotional side of
you know the risk or the um
the kind of the very human elements that
we sometimes don't factor in because we
sort of think far too logically
using a structure to help you think
around that it's one of the best piece
of advice i could give somebody
all of this stuff takes a bit more time
and a lot of sales people will push back
to me and they do so i haven't got time
to this got to go out selling
right this is selling this is making
sure that what you're doing you're doing
right
so for me i'm mapping a decision-making
unit working out all those bits about
the people thinking about that thinking
what you don't know
the known unknowns um and doing
something around it that's
i was gonna say the 30 second advice on
opportunity management but it was about
two minutes on it
i guess i guess what we're getting at as
well like you said is it might sound
like it's going to take longer
but ultimately if you're i don't know
let's say initially you're in discussion
with a marketing exec and yes they're
part of the process but eventually you
need to speak to the chief marketing
officer the cmo perhaps you need to
involve the i don't know the finance
director um there's no point just
constantly pitching the marketing exact
because ultimately they're not going to
be the one that's
given the green light and spending the
cash yes they're a piece of the puzzle
and yes you need to go to work with them
but i guess at some stage you need to
get the
other people in the process involved you
need to understand kind of some of their
drivers
what they want to get out of the
relationship out of the business what
some of their problems and goals and
objectives and such and then work them
into the process is that right
absolutely you know and
i know why sales people will tend to try
and stick with it with their best mate
usually people that understand them the
best and the most similar to them
because it's easier you know it's
comfortable it's safe
but just to get the habit that i want to
map all this out that is what my goal as
a good salesperson is
and to then start getting comfortable
asking things like how is this decision
made
who do we need to involve at this stage
what process do you guys go through
yeah now this can be quite interesting
because somebody might go uh
actually i don't know
okay well in that case what i can do is
i can talk about typically what happens
when i'm selling a solution like this
as much as you probably don't want to
speak to procurement we ought to get
them involved in early actually there's
lots of reasons why you would yeah we
will have to go and speak to these guys
so let's get them on board let's think
how we can do it let's make a plan
together
now immediately we're becoming more
collaborative
again you know i beat the drummer around
collaborative selling a hell of a lot so
it's that kind of thinking knowing that
that's what i want to map out and that's
how i'm going to do it and that's going
to drive more activity that will help
anyone who's
starting to get into any level of
complex selling not even that complex to
be honest it's just more and more people
getting involved in decisions
and i guess it builds credibility as
well right because if you're saying look
typically when we're working on these
kind of projects then we'll find that at
some stage we've got to get procurement
involved
to find out i don't know whether it's
around quality analysis whatever it
might be to do with your product um we
might need to get finance involved to
check that all the budget restrictions
are in guide um we might need to get the
head of marketing to sign off the
collect the collateral the material that
we're doing so when it makes sense to
kind of book xyz in and then the person
might even sit back and think like well
they know our business better than we do
yeah and it's just i guess giving you a
check box in the credibility sector of
your your offer
yeah
cool which which i mean and there's
other elements of opportunity management
which is then it gives you the stuff
that you need to build the the mutual
action plan or the outcome enablement
plan so some of the guys i work with
talk about that which i like because we
are talking about the outcomes again it
gives you the focus on what you're there
to do
but it moves us nicely into that l of
leading so you actually are leading the
process
so yes oh everyone's 90
95 99 decided on what they're gonna do
which i think it's 70s the number
usually thrown around they're not
necessarily and actually
if they're early doors and that'll be
the time to try to get in to any kind of
project and you help them to understand
that you guide them you lead them you
help them make sense of stuff
that for me is adding value in itself
not your product not your service not
the stuff that you probably end up
selling them it's how you help them
think
that's what that's what a good
salesperson is acting as a lead or a
guide
um
servant to a degree servant leader i
quite like
yeah yeah not not survival different
thing completely
[Laughter]
no you're not
you're equals but it's i'm here to help
you and to take you down the the right
the right route
yeah so this this guide aspect this lead
this guy the l of the the evolved
process is that
a bit like we're talking about just now
just showing that you are a professional
in your field you've done this many
times before you've helped many
businesses look this is the process that
we we're going to go down and and we're
going to help you kind of along the way
are there any i guess any any
recommendations that you'd provide fred
for perhaps people that are a bit
apprehensive and perhaps they're used to
dealing with
kind of maybe i don't know maybe they're
used to dealing with smaller deal
cycles smaller deals sizes and values
and now they're moving on to selling
perhaps larger packages larger pieces of
software whatever it may be and now
there's multiple stakeholders perhaps
c-suite level and they're coming down on
like a ton of bricks like
every meeting's like we've got 15
minutes to do this i want to talk about
xyz and before you know it
the um the prospective client has
flipped the switch and they're trying to
rule the meeting and you you're trying
to get a word in edgeways and can
how how do you advise that we take a
scenario like that and
still prove that we're we're here to
help them we're here to lead them and
guide the conversation
yeah i mean
and that's sometimes the the tricks the
mind plays that oh they're more senior
they're more powerful they're coming on
this meeting so they want to bully me
and they
no if they're getting involved it's
because they're seeing the value in it
and they you know wanting to
take something from you they're wanting
to get to get to get a share of your
experience
so what you said there is when you've
got these different um different roles
it's to really think about what those
different roles require
and again in some ways let's not over
complicate it let's simplify it
yeah there's potentially let's pretend
we're saying the it it's pretty pretty
good example
um there's four roles you're gonna be
speaking to there are technical people
there are people who like talking about
computers and i.t and all that sort of
stuff you'll have a technical
conversation with that fine
you will have to be talking to finance
you have to finance people procurement
people who've got a different set of
interests don't talk to them about
speeds and fees because they're just
like what i don't bother about it yeah
then
depending the size of project you will
go into the c-suite or till senior
management again don't get into detail
don't they bog down in the weeds again
they're not bothered about this it's is
it helping my business is it helping a
strategic level let's talk longer term
stuff
and if you don't need to speak to them
don't pull them in for the sake of it
just because somebody somewhere on some
linkedin poster said yes elder c-suite
that if it's not touching them don't
bother if it is make sure you are
understanding what they're looking for
what they're bothered about and get it
across really really punchy
and then the fourth is that whatever
you're doing might have an impact on
some line of business
so yeah there might be a specific
solution that hr are picking up on
marketing you've been speaking about a
little bit okay so what are they looking
for those those areas are looking people
are looking for different stuff if
you've got this if you're a one-trick
pony saying this is what we do this is
how we do it but it's probably gonna
trust no one so be very clear on what
the person you're you're trying to
to to work with is looking for and
getting that across dead clear
yeah
that makes sense
i guess appealing to
making sure you appeal to all angles of
the the people that are involved in the
process involved in the project
involving the decision um
how do you find or how have you had
success with that fred is that just
asking great questions to each each
person involved or is it just um kind of
through working with perhaps your own
team and asking them for insights on
what they typically care about so then
you're not going into conversations
blind and you've got insights from your
team that have perhaps been there and
done it or
there are other ways that you found work
insights insight is such a key word in
sales insight but different perspective
bringing something to the table that's
making people think which would tend to
be from a really good question
formed around an insight again makes you
look very very well and like you say
even if you haven't got a full team
you're probably gonna know somebody who
is in that role so just sit down and say
okay you know what sort of stuff's
important to you then
you know okay right you know as a
finance director what kind of stuff
floats your boat you know what do you
look for somebody's trying to say what
should they be talking to you about
listen to them yes you've got the
resource around you go to your own
marketing department say someone came in
and started selling to you what what
stuff will turn you off what stuff will
make you think oh this is really really
cool so use that as a way just to think
okay that's the route
i'll potentially be going
but then don't don't then turn that into
a full-on pitch don't go into full
presentation mode and then tell them
what it is that you think they need
because that will turn them off now
that's not selling value which again
we're into the next point and all this
stuff linkedin
the way i talk about that in the book i
i nick blatantly nick a phrase from a
colleague of mine mike wilkinson um who
talks about value is a mystery and if
you take that that is a mystery it's our
job to work like a detective to
understand what it actually is for the
customer now we have an idea yeah but we
work
with them again collaborating working
closely to think this is what they are
after
you know
when i hear my brain does weird stuff
and um i always think like scooby-doo
and the mystery machine
you're rocking up in your mystery
machine yeah and you've got a reasonable
idea it's probably the janitor
it usually was wasn't it but you've
still got to go through the process of
doing this thing and finding out yeah it
was bad i've got the proof well actually
you know in this case it wasn't oh fancy
that was that teacher amazing um but no
so that's what we're doing is we'll take
the clues we'll have the idea of where
we're going with this but then we're we
detective working we're understanding
we're asking questions we're getting
information we're synthesizing it um so
then we can replay it back to them and
say so for you in this in this instance
this is what it looks like
but again the process of doing that
asking the questions helping them think
that's where you can add massive value
that's what's setting you apart not hey
i've got this it's really shiny and
really really good no no i like you to
the way you work with me and you're
helping me get this so of course i'm not
going to come and start to buy from you
yep yep are there any
everyone has different perspective of
this but are there any great ways to
show that you're really bringing huge
value to companies and this is going to
be a very sector dependent thing and
very
very a lot between industries but is it
literally just
showing that you've taken the time to
understand where they're at right now
any current business issues problems and
how you're going to bring them to their
desired outcome um and just saying look
based upon what you've shared with me
problem a b and c
we can deliver this solution it's going
to bring you to your better life in in
six months time with this
it is and i think again what i said is
that people try to be so presumptive to
rock up and say this is what it is i
have the solution for you it's like yeah
i don't even recognize the problem i
don't know and that's just not the way i
want to do it
yeah but the approach that you're taking
to help modern and say look
i have taken time i've worked in your
industry anyway so i know that these are
common challenges i've had a look at
what you guys do
i'm gonna hazard a guess that this could
be one of the things that's that is
challenging you guys
now that's that's that's that's a brave
approach
but if you've done the homework right i
think it can only go well
because if you get it bang on they're
gonna go whoa
yeah that's pretty cool well yeah let's
explore it more if you're partly there i
go oh yeah kind of okay good let's
explore it further no no actually you're
wrong okay
well how what is it
so
but even getting it wrong but showing
you've made the effort to try to
understand it and you are bringing in
some you know some solid research and
evidence that you care and you're
putting them at the center of your world
yeah they're the hero not you
that that's how to really come across i
think as the the kind of person they
want to work with
yeah i like it so just before we talk
about how you can expand and grow client
accounts which is the final e of the
evolve
what do you feel is the most important
takeaway or the most important aspect of
the whole of hybrid selling
uh
it's bringing it all together in a way
that works for you
that's for me so i bring this to have a
bit of a mantra think learn do so yeah
we can think about stuff and you can
learn stuff and well i've done that i've
put in the book for you
you know so read the book but you have
to do something about it whatever thing
you take whether it's actually i do that
already i do it well i want to make sure
i sort of keep banging that drum well go
back to that analogy
or i didn't realize i needed that drum
let me get that and put it in place and
start to play it as part of my
performance
that's the takeaway of hybrid sonic it's
making sure you've got this ability to
mix up the stuff that you're doing
that's the biggie for me
putting it into action as well by the
sounds of it so
yeah it's it's again
i got more mantras yeah implementation
not information you know the info
there's so much information there you
know
there's my book there's all the books
based on it each of those elements there
are books and books and books on each of
the elements of hybrid teller um so you
can read all those you know people have
52 books i've read this year one a week
you've got a happy days what have you
done with it
it it has to be about doing
yeah
let's go on to the final piece of the
puzzle with that said so
how can we leverage this all to expand
to ramp up to build up our our customer
our existing customer accounts and
strategies
well
we've got deliver on what we've promised
we've done all this work we've worked
out where we you know can do stuff you
know you talk about outcomes outcome has
got to be our focus
okay that's what we can do c is
no
now whether it's yourself if it's full
cycle you have got responsibility for
for that or if you're in a you know
position where you've got customer
success management teams who can get in
and help with that again make sure that
they're doing the job as best they can
but you know that's what we promised
let's make sure that's happening
um so yeah it's kind of applying those
those principles
yeah and so yeah account management
principles as well so
for me account management we
can't manage i know they get incredibly
frustrated when they get bogged down in
the tactical stuff day to day because
they need to be
jumping back out and thinking more
strategically about where else can we
add value what else can we do what other
things you know should we should be
talking about
um and so the simple the simple solution
i guess is
i talk about switching out qb after q vr
so quarterly business review
in the art that's a waste of time
right what what what i mean and then the
whole i.t sector kind of finds out it's
like well if you're rocking up and
saying well this is the stuff we
promised to do and we've done it and
here's the spreadsheet show you in a few
graphs and things like okay
let's not bother with that meeting again
however if we're saying here's the stuff
we promise there's the sla that's all
good but let's focus on the value are
you getting value from working with us
let's go quantitative
to qualitative and thinking about where
can we do more stuff and again it's
their perception it's what's it like
working with us what are we doing well
where can we do stuff better how have we
built value where else can we go with
this
it's having that discussion and you know
framing the meeting having the agendas
around that way of working rather than
yeah we promised 98 we delivered on 98.5
have i done well
yeah yeah really what you said you do
so yeah it's getting those discussions
going about you know what we're doing
well where can we go with this and again
it's using a lot of that information now
the insights that we're using
are from the customer rather than the
stuff that we've been pulling in from
outside before this is what we're
actually doing with you this is the
stuff that's going on we're
understanding you better we can use that
better
yeah yeah yeah so having i guess more of
a conversation with them and just
being real about what's going well have
we delivered on what we discussed are
there any other areas that you want to
improve on over the next i know six 12
months things like that and
you've kind of touched on it but i was
going to say have you you seen any good
ways fred of bringing new ideas to the
table so we're we're doing this on the
basis that we've delivered what we said
we're going to deliver on the solution
the project whatever it was if we want
to perhaps grow the account bring new
ideas perhaps upsell any ways that
you've found have been effective to to
do so that don't come across as just our
we're trying to sell them new
i saw this and thought of you
now
depending on the age range of people
listening to this that might resonate
with some people and some people go
that's just words fred
you know but people who will remember
that it was a post office advert
when we used to send letters made of
paper and we used to cut things out and
put them in and say look literally i saw
this article and thought you would find
it of interest you know and that's what
the whole tv
advertising campaign was about
it's kind of that still it's hey look
because we've got a relationship i
understand you what you're trying to do
what you're like here is something i
think will be of interest
you know and it's
it's a far more thoughtful considered
sharing of information because you know
it should hit home
that will then start to trigger the
discussions and start to again keep you
in the position of this is what i like
working with
they've got my interests at heart that's
why they're thinking on me that's why
whatever they saw
made them think yeah we need to chat
about it
yep
it's getting a bit more personal it
sounds like with your approach and
not just thinking directly on the
business itself
at every single level you know it could
be something quite personal about the
individual it could be to a hobby or
interest yeah if it's if it's about the
you know just keeping the relationship
going
yeah now again people don't just buy
from their best mates so it normally it
is going to be something like we've seen
in your industry here are some of the
trends this is something that you know
our insights team you know that our
marketing team are seeing and focusing
on and so this is what i want to share
with you to make sure you guys are ahead
of the game you're not going to caught
out by this new legislation this new
trend we're going to see coming this
this this kind of
way the industry's leaning
um whoa brilliant or oh yeah we kind of
look at that anyway but yeah you're on
it too brilliant let's put heads
together
so again i think if you're thinking like
that and thinking proactively it's what
i could no no fail approach
yeah yeah yeah i guess it comes across
you're actively trying to try to help
them sharing insights whether that is
let you say latest latest trends or
perhaps you're sharing the podcast that
you think is relevant to them or video
or article whatever it may be
you're bringing some kind of value to
the table and then you can introduce
your ideas
yeah cool so it's keeping the discussion
going and and again maybe there's a kind
of business where it's we've done it we
put it in place they're getting the
outcomes they don't necessarily need
that interaction ongoing make an excuse
to do it
get in your crm they they first bought
from you thank you
thank you there's our birthday it's our
birthday when we first like did business
together so i just want to thank you for
doing that but yeah here's some
information i thought you might find
interesting something we've got
can i have an opinion on something
again senior people
if you ask properly you won't mind
sharing an opinion so you can learn a
lot
yeah so i'm putting together some market
research and actually value what your
opinions are so i'd like to ask you this
question
sent in a video i mean you can start to
mix this stuff up you know people can
think wow yeah you value me that much
cool
yeah and if you really want to go for it
can you give me some feedback on me as a
salesperson
now there's a question
because somebody asking that
i can guarantee not many people asking
that
the person receiving that question think
whoa this person takes their job really
seriously
that's the kind of person i want to work
with and yes i will give them some
feedback on it
so you'll get to know the stuff that you
do that's really good that you might not
even realize by the way and then some of
the stuff's on the blind spot stuff
thing actually i thought i was good i
didn't realize they didn't like that or
here is where i can get better that that
for me would be a very very
cool question to ask and
put yourself at your comfort zone to ask
it
oh yeah yeah yeah i mean i i suppose if
you ask a list of your top customers
um
that kind of question like
how do you think i'm doing as a sales
person
and
yeah if you if you collate the common
feedback like if people are keep saying
like yes you're doing this this really
really well like your your conversations
around taking the time to learn our
industry et cetera are great but
i really think if you took the time to
do this specific point
i don't know perhaps it's noting down
our calls and reciting that in a better
manner or whatever it might be and
that's what people keep saying i guess
you know look this is this is an issue i
need to fix it but i would have never
known if i didn't ask
but but for me so yes
the benefits you're getting all that
that input back for yourself
um but it's the way that that question
is perceived
this person is serious this person is
who i want to work with because of the
way they the way they think the way they
do things they're a pro
yeah yeah yeah they go about it
professional footballer do you want to
watch the video the game on saturday
night right
really do you want to tell you how you
played no
just rock up and play this next time
you're not my team but again i think by
asking that there's so many benefits of
it yeah
makes sense nice one fred and that's a
nice way to to wrap up the evolve
framework and the conversation about
hybrid selling so
with that sir please do tell us more
about how we can get our hands on the
book um where it's on sale now and
anything else you'd like to promote my
good friend
uh so amazon um it's there it's it's on
there hybrid selling fred cope steak so
you'll find it on that
um
and
yeah the only thing i'll add with that
would be that uh
there is a scorecard so can we pop a
link in to this when it goes out
certainly can yeah yeah we'll put that
in so put a link so i'll build scorecard
around it so that even if people don't
want to buy the book they can sort of
answer some questions to get a bit of
feedback and feedback to that
on kind of how they are where they're
stacking up against that framework so
yeah again this drum you're playing
really really well happy days keep
playing it but you need to be adding a
symbol here and something over there
um
that's the advice on it now go ahead and
do something about it so
yeah i will i'll fire you that one
across to pop in as a link and uh
yeah that would be that'll be the best
way to kind of move this thinking
forward
nice one sir and we'll put a link to all
of that over at the show notes at
businessgrowth.marketing and with that i
want to thank you once again fred for
coming on enjoyed the chat as always
now thank you for inviting me always a
pleasure to have never a chore no
worries mates
[Laughter]
and as always if you enjoyed this show
be sure to give us a quick rating on
apple or spotify it's always very much
appreciated and likewise if you are on
youtube a quick subscribe we'd be very
thankful for and with that we should
catch you on the next episode of
business growth show cheers